Mikhail Kalinin: Ayy.
Mikhail Kalinin: Hey, Will.
Will Corcoran: There we go.
Julian Ma: Hey, hey.
Mikhail Kalinin: Did you learn? Anton?
Will Corcoran: Enjoy. Hey, Antoine.
Antoine James: Hi, everyone.
Will Corcoran: Hey, everyone. Normally start with client updates, we…
Will Corcoran: I don't believe any client devs on the call.
Will Corcoran: Mikal, you had… Added these spec changes that you wanted to discuss,
Will Corcoran: Is that something you would want to talk about at the top of the call, or are you hoping to have more of an audience to…
Will Corcoran: Review those changes.
Mikhail Kalinin: I would just go quick over the new change, and… on the call. So, basically.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, they request us to review the thing, but yeah. Should we do it now?
Mikhail Kalinin: Sorry, can you hear me?
Will Corcoran: Yeah, we could… We could wait another couple of minutes before we start, if you want.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, let's wait.
Will Corcoran: Okay.
Will Corcoran: Alright.
Will Corcoran: Thanks, everyone, for coming. This is Fast Confirmation Rule FCR breakout room number 4.
Will Corcoran: We normally start with client updates.
Will Corcoran: I don't see any client devs on the call, please correct me if I'm wrong.
Will Corcoran: But Mikhail had a couple of spec changes that we were gonna start with.
Will Corcoran: I will drop the… Links in the chat, and Michael…
Will Corcoran: If you wanna take it away.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yep.
Mikhail Kalinin: Thanks, Will. So… Yeah, the first one… Was the,
Mikhail Kalinin: the fix for the edge case found by Ethan from Nimbus?
Mikhail Kalinin: This is, like, the edge case with the first block in the reconfirmation part of the spec, so that's the spec issue.
Mikhail Kalinin: It's addressed, there is a test already written to cover the such case.
Mikhail Kalinin: Great credits to Ethan for finding this out.
Mikhail Kalinin: Also, there were… a side of… the second change, the second change is about,
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, it's just, like, the most recent one.
Mikhail Kalinin: So… This changes the way we compute the adversarial threshold for
Mikhail Kalinin: like, the adversarial wait for the, compute and honest FFG support, for the honest FFG support that we have.
Mikhail Kalinin: It's kind of like, this PR, this change, introduces, like, a similar way of
Mikhail Kalinin: processing locations, so a similar way to is1Confirmed, method. In is1Confirmed, we have this,
Mikhail Kalinin: discount for validators who already equocated. We discount these from the adversarial weight. So basically, if, like, say 20% of letters got slashed, we assume that honest validators never slashed, and we basically subtract
Mikhail Kalinin: these 20% from the 25% of the potential adversarial weight, which basically increases the liveness of the FCR,
Mikhail Kalinin: without compromising security. So this was,
Mikhail Kalinin: from the beginning in the spec for ES1 confirmed, but it was not for this honest FFG support.
Mikhail Kalinin: And now they are similar, in that regard, so that's basically it.
Mikhail Kalinin: what's left to do is to fix tests. Some of the tests are broken by this change, but yeah, just please take a look and be aware of this change. I hope this… this is, like, one of the last changes to the spec.
Mikhail Kalinin: Except for potential issues with the spec or box, but… Yep.
Mikhail Kalinin: That's about it. There were a few changes that also landed the main branch after the previous call, and also we were, after the previous call, we were exploring
Mikhail Kalinin: Damn.
Mikhail Kalinin: The… the way of, like, reusing fork choice weights in the first confirmation rule.
Mikhail Kalinin: But after, like, some conversations with developers.
Mikhail Kalinin: We decided not to do this, and because, yeah, it's… it's not possible as is to reuse the fork choice weights, and will require some additional tweaks.
Mikhail Kalinin: And also, the positive thing is that, if the fast confirmation rule implementation is independent on the FOC choice.
Mikhail Kalinin: So these two components can be changed independently, and yeah, the work can happen in parallel. So we decided not to do this.
Mikhail Kalinin: And, yeah, this back is moving towards, like, its final state.
Mikhail Kalinin: That's it about this track.
Roberto Saltini: So, Mikai, do you mean that we…
Roberto Saltini: We can new… we can compute the fork choice… sorry, the…
Roberto Saltini: The, yeah, the fork choice waits for the fast confirmation route using
Roberto Saltini: The violence is coming from this.
Roberto Saltini: any checkpoint.
Roberto Saltini: No, not just… Not just considering the… Most recent justified checkpoint.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yes, yes.
Mikhail Kalinin: So that's… That's my take.
Mikhail Kalinin: So we can use, like, not arbitrary, but a different
Mikhail Kalinin: balance source for the fast confirmation that we use for the fork choice.
Mikhail Kalinin: This whole thing.
Roberto Saltini: I used it. Yep.
Roberto Saltini: Can reach that checkpoint that we intend to use originally, which is the… Credit has justified?
Roberto Saltini: at the beginning… at the beginning of the last slot of the previous epoch.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yep.
Roberto Saltini: Okay.
Roberto Saltini: That's good from a… Okay, algorithm point of view.
Roberto Saltini: So that's the… Ugh.
Roberto Saltini: Lion, lighthouse implementation of the first confirmation rule, implement this.
Roberto Saltini: the algorithm, as we had, like, in the paper, were usually justified from the…
Roberto Saltini: Last slot of the previous ebook.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, I think so. To be more specific, it's, like, in the spec, but the spec is, like, this… yeah, the spec is very close to the paper.
Mikhail Kalinin: So, yeah, I think that implementation,
Mikhail Kalinin: I believe it uses the algorithm as…
Mikhail Kalinin: In the spec. Well, sorry, in the paper.
Roberto Saltini: Okay.
Will Corcoran: I just dropped a link to the Lighthouse implementation Roberto was referring to in the chat.
Will Corcoran: Great. Any other updates? Spec-related, testing-related, research-related?
Will Corcoran: Or discussion topics.
Will Corcoran: On the paper side, We're resuming work after a short pause last week. Tomorrow.
Will Corcoran: I will have a meeting with Roto to plan the next steps towards finalizing it. Thanks, Luca.
Mikhail Kalinin: On the testing side… we had…
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, this… let me link to the PR. This is the PR with the… is one confirmed function test.
Mikhail Kalinin: Made by Luca, it has a… quite good coverage.
Mikhail Kalinin: Also, currently, we are working on the…
Mikhail Kalinin: Like, rigorous testing of the cases where we need to confirm the block from the previous epoch.
Mikhail Kalinin: To… to… to remind, we have these… we have…
Mikhail Kalinin: I see a similar test suite done for the current epoch blocks. Now, the previous epoch block case
Mikhail Kalinin: Okay, all cases need to be covered.
Mikhail Kalinin: So it's like… I would say more than a hundred of tests to be… finished soon, so… Yeah.
Mikhail Kalinin: The goal is to have them done by
Mikhail Kalinin: By the end of next week, something like that.
Mikhail Kalinin: And, after this is done, it's like, it will be, like, 90% of test coverage, maybe 95% will need, probably, to try to cover some edge cases and some
Mikhail Kalinin: More than 100, yes, for this particular stuff, for this particular, previous epoch block test.
Mikhail Kalinin: So we, we currently have, like, around 100 tests.
Mikhail Kalinin: Maybe something like that.
Mikhail Kalinin: Yeah, and a good test coverage will allow us to,
Mikhail Kalinin: to say that the devnet implementation that passes all the tests, if it passes all the tests that,
Mikhail Kalinin: He'll give us some… Assurance that it's likely correct.
Will Corcoran: Great. Any other topics?
Will Corcoran: Alright, well, we might just… have, A short call today.
Will Corcoran: And… that's okay. Seems like we're making a lot of progress, on the testing.
Will Corcoran: Cover side, the research is about ready to wrap up, and on the specification side, so…
Will Corcoran: Seems like things are all moving in a positive direction, and…
Will Corcoran: yeah, I'm sure we'll start getting more client, participation as things… I know that they just hit, DevNet Zero with
Will Corcoran: ePBS.
Will Corcoran: So there's probably a lot of effort focused on that right now.
Will Corcoran: If there's nothing else, I say we call to call.
Roberto Saltini: Thank you.
Will Corcoran: Thank you.
Mikhail Kalinin: Thank you.
Julian Ma: Thank you.